Hello and welcome back to the course on block change.
And today we get to talk about the Dow attack.
So the Dow was one of the first decentralized autonomous organizations created by himself and some other
people.
And it was creating cells 16 on the theory.
So you see them as its core protocol.
And it was the concept behind it was to create a venture capital fund where it would help organizations.
It would help with the development of decentralized applications to run on the theory of block chain
meaning that this is like a noble cause to help others start their own projects that would be decentralized
and that would run on the block.
And this dhal organization Bergdahl was stateless so it wasn't it's an interesting fact about it that
it didn't belong to any country and that already started raising some questions with authorities.
But there was something that was being sold later.
In the meantime the Dow was crowdfunded.
You threw a token sale.
And by May 2016 when the finally was over they raised a hundred and fifty million dollars.
That was the most successful crowdfunding campaign in the history of the world.
Fifty million dollars.
And yes people just believed in this whole idea of decentralization of making things on the block chain
and moving to this new type of engine a new type of world.
And so it's it's a great thing to see.
However unfortunately there was an error in the code of the doll in error in the code of the way the
smart contracts were coded for this our a recession.
As we discussed previously.
So it's decentralized forms are exemptions they are governed entirely by smart contracts rather than
people.
And therefore the dot was hacked attacked and hacked on June 2016 for 50 million dollars and the interesting
concept or notion here is that the attacker didn't actually do anything illegal.
They just found this flaw in the code and they used it to leech money out of the dollar account into
their own account.
And so everybody saw this happening everybody saw the money moving like just being leeched from from
one account to the other and nobody could do anything about.
Nobody could do anything because the Dow is a total mess.
You can just tell them what to do it does things on its own.
It's governed by its own algorithms some code.
And and at the same time there's this flaw in the contract which allows the attacker to perform this
as a valid transaction is a valid part of the contract.
And and the contract is immutable You cannot change a contract because once it's on the block chain
it's on the block chain you can just go and change things around because it would defeat the purpose
of the blotching.
And so that was a major problem.
However the good news was that the funds were cut again once again according to the way the Dow was
coded.
There was a failsafe mechanism which meant that funds cannot be taken out entirely.
Like even though the tech and all the other accounts that was a child the company of the Dow and then
they could move them out later on to their own account.
They've completely taken away.
But they will have to wait 30 days or somewhere around 30 days.
And so in that time the whole community had an opportunity to think and decide what to do.
And so there was a dilemma.
Dilemma is the is the Cold War is more or not.
And what that says is on one hand part of the community said no we're not going to do anything about
it because code is law.
That's how the contract was coded.
And we cannot just go and change things that are supposed to be immutable.
And so we have to use it as it is.
The other part of the community said that no is too much money.
Fifty billion dollars belongs to people so we're going to we're going to do a hard four and we'll talk
about forks in the next interval.
We'll do a hard fork of the chain and we will change the rules and basically for what they said it's
like we'll do we'll do the hard work and we'll change the rules.
And that means that we'll be able to change the
rules of this contract we'll basically revert the rules of this contract so that we can pull the money
back and give it back to the owners.
And so there was this dilemma even eventually they ended up doing a hard for it was the title IX initiative
to do the fork and they did the hard for it and now hard for it doesn't always imply that there's going
to be a split.
But in this case there was a split.
And because some people were not really not happy with that decision that because they wanted to protect
their attacker but because they they wanted to preserve the integrity of this concept of the blotching
that if there's a smart contract it's a contract for a reason.
You cannot just go in and work things and that hard for theory was split into theory.
Anything classic.
So what we'll see in the next tutorial is on this version of ethereal hackers money went back to the
Dow and go distribute back to people.
But in this version of ethereal if you classic.
The hackers money stage.
Of course it's like it's like two parallel worlds.
After a hard fought like two parallel worlds worlds and basically this money it's got duplicated among
the two in this one it got returned to the owners.
And this one it went to the Hague I know it sounds very very insane like how can we just make out of
$50 billion.
How can we make double the amount.
But that's how it works.
We'll discuss this more in the coming tutorial and also I'll recommend some reading just now.
And in the end the hacker walked away with 67 million dollars in 3M Classic.
Classic 67.
That's because this was calculated later and the exchange changed so at the time it was less.
But if they held on to their money then at some point it became six to seven million dollars.
And so another important thing to note here that the problem was in the Dow code not in the theory itself
it was a problem in how the smart contract was coded not the platform.
So this was a short overview of the attack.
I know a few things might still be confusing.
For instance how could everybody walk away happy that both the Dow investors got their money back and
they either feed the gods in their money so how could that be possible.
Well we'll talk more about Forex in an upcoming tutorial.
But for now if you'd like to learn more about the dollar tax like all the details how it all unraveled
and everything worked then I would like to recommend a wonderful piece by Bloomberg.
It's called the ether thief.
We'll include the link in the course notes and it's very well written.
It reads like a story or like a like a thriller or a detective story.
You can see like additional comments and quotes you can always go to the right here and find out the
details of things that are being discussed on the left you will receive of the code if you want to have
a look at what they're talking about where where the error in the code was and things like that and
I will.
Another thing I like is that here they are and they say it's been about a year since the attack so they've
added some information or maybe that's the time when they wrote it.
Nevertheless there is some aftermath on what happened and things like that.
So great piece by Bloomberg.
You can definitely find out all the details you need or want from from here.
It's called the ether.
And yeah I hope you are excited like not about that task but just like about forks and the whole notion
that people are super supportive of this world that they are investing millions of dollars that there
is this promise basically that shows that there's promise in actions and in decentralized organizations
and apps.
I know even though this one failed you know that's how things start.
They started they fail and then eventually after a few mistakes we learned and we changed the world.
There we go.
So I hope today's tutorial and 14:6 that until then Gibler change.